Our focus in this section was on a major
theme of security: protecting assets.
A large part of this relates to privacy.
We should all enjoy the right to
decide who can access our information.
As we learned, there are several controls
in place that help secure assets.
We began the section by exploring
effective data handling processes that
are founded on the principle
of least privilege.
We then explored the role of encryption
and hashing and safeguarding information.
We explored how symmetric and
asymmetric encryption works and
how hashes further
safeguard data from harm.
We then turned our attention to standard
access controls. Properly authenticating
and authorizing users is what maintaining
the CIA triad of information is all about!
We used the AAA framework of security
to take a detailed tour of identity and
access management systems and the access
controls that validate whether or not
someone is who they claim to be.
Well done making it through
the first half of the course!
You're making great progress so
far, and I hope you keep it up.
Remember, your background and
experiences are valuable in this field.
This combined with the concepts
we're covering will make you
a valuable contributor
to any security team.
Up until this point, we've been exploring
the defensive side of security, but
security isn't all about planning ahead
and waiting for something to happen.
In the next part of our journey,
we're going to continue developing
a security mindset by taking a more
proactive look at security from
the perspective of attackers.
I'll meet you there!